What is SDN ?

1. Open SDN based on the original work at stanford

Definition : The physical separation of the network control plane from the forwarding plane, and where a control plane controls several devices.

Software-Defined Networking (SDN) is an emerging architecture that is dynamic, manageable, cost-effective, and adaptable, making it ideal for the high-bandwidth, dynamic nature of today’s applications. This architecture decouples the network control and forwarding functions enabling the network control to become directly programmable and the underlying infrastructure to be abstracted for applications and network services. The OpenFlow® protocol is a foundational element for building SDN solutions. For an in-depth understanding of SDN-based networking and use cases, check out the open source micro-book https://sdn.systemsapproach.org/
(“Software-Defined Networks: A Systems Approach”.)


Implementations of Software Defined Networking Controllers include :

OpenDaylight (ODL)
ONOS
NOX
POX
Floodlight
RYU
HP
Brocade
and others


2. SDN via Overlays

NSX from Vmware.

underlay network is the concept of physical network devices
virtual network that can automatically be deployed across physical network.

VXLAN
NVGRE
Nuage Networks

high scale , multi datacenter multi hypervisor virtual networks.




3. Brite Box / White Boxes

Pica8 , Cumulus Networks

why run proprietary operating systems tied to proprietary hardware
why not run an operating system that can be run on multiple vendor devices.

physical switch with an os
we can install a different os on those switches.

another example is
Facebook Open Compute Switches such as 6 pack and Wedge.






4. SDN via APIs (Application Programming Interfaces)

rather than being limited to configuring a network device via a command line
interface which is very restrictive, why don't we have richer programmatic interfaces on network devices.


for example, let's use a RESTful API with SDN controller. rather than basic CLI.

other protocols like OVSDB and Netconf could be used to programmatically change configuration of network device


Open vSwitch Database Management Protocol
The Open vSwitch Database Management Protocol (OVSDB) is an OpenFlow configuration protocol that is designed to manage Open vSwitch implementations. Open vSwitch is a virtual switch that enables network automation, while supporting standard management interfaces and protocols, like NetFlow.


we may use SNMP but SNMP has restrictions and does not work well while changing configuration of a device.
 
5. SDN using ASICs

Cisco ACI Application Centric Infrastructure.
OPFLEX

using SDN using Hardware using application-specific integrated circuits


other terms

cloud automation using OpenStack
manage all networking devices, servers, storage from a single management console.

NFV

visit opnfv website.

nfv - why do you run specific operating systems on specific hardware to provide a function

why do you have a hardware firewall that provides that function

in past we had servers that had specific functions installed on specific hardware

for e.g an exchange server or a database server or a file server every server was running on dedicated hardware.


servers got virtualized

run servers inside virtual machines ( many vms in a hardware)

in the same way
why dont we virtualize networking devices.
 
we might virtualize cisco router using CSR [Cloud Services Router]
or HP router using VSR [Virtual Services Router]
or switch using OVS

Open vSwitch, sometimes abbreviated as OVS, is an open-source implementation of a distributed virtual multilayer switch. The main purpose of Open vSwitch is to provide a switching stack for hardware virtualization environments, while supporting multiple protocols and standards used in computer networks
written in C

in vmware vmware have virtual switches running in hypervisors

why dont we virtualize networking devices rather than having a dedicated router or a dedicated firewall.



Why don't we just have a virtual machine with that function.
so we can virtualize a router or virtualize a firewall.

virtualize the operating system as well
run multiple applications seperated from each other
as they are in seperate vms or containers
and seperate apps from each other but have multiple applications running on
a single server.

why don't we virtualize a function such as VRRP 
The Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol (VRRP) is a computer networking protocol that provides for automatic assignment of available Internet Protocol (IP) routers to participating hosts. This increases the availability and reliability of routing paths via automatic default gateway selections on an IP subnetwork.
or virtualize a firewall function

rather than running a full operating system and dedicated hardware PER FUNCTION.

why don't we run just a single Operating System and run many network functions on OS.













Is This SDN actually real ? and is OpenFlow and SDN the same thing ?