The forwarding information base (FIB) is the actual information that a routing/switching device uses to choose the interface that a given packet will use for egress. For example, the FIB might be programmed such that a packet bound to a destination in 192.168.1.0/24 should be sent out of physical port ethernet1/2. There may actually be multiple FIB's on a device for unicast forwarding vs multicast RPF checking, different protocols (ip vs mpls vs ipv6) but the basic function is the same - selection criteria (usually destination) mapping to output interface/encapsulation. Individual FIB's may also be partitioned to achieve concurrent independent forwarding tables (i.e. vrf's).

Each FIB is programmed by one or more routing information bases (RIB). The RIB is a selection of routing information learned via static definition or a dynamic routing protocol. The algorithms used within various RIB's will vary - so, for example, the means by which BGP or OSPF determines potential best paths vary quite a bit. The means by which multiple RIB's are programmed into a common (set) of FIB's in a box will vary by implementation but this is where concepts like administrative distance are used (e.g. identical paths are learned via eBGP and OSPF, the eBGP is usually preferred for FIB injection). Again, RIB's may also be potentially partitioned to allow for multiple vrf's, etc.


In essence, RIB (Routing Information Base) is being built by various routing processes on the node, with information from routing protocols - like OSPF, IS-IS, BGP or even the static entries.

After out of all routes in RIB the best ones are selected, they are copied to FIB (Forwarding Information Base). The exact means vary from platform to platform. In general, it's either done by some IPC communication, internal network, or simply (in monolitic software solutions) as a copy (data or pointers) between tables.

So, RIB contains all the routes node is willing to keep and the information there is being used by the routing protocols. FIB is used by hardware to physically move the packets in and out of interfaces. Hardware can keep forwarding based on the FIB contents, while RIB is being updated/etc.

Take a look here for starters: http://blog.ipspace.net/2010/09/ribs-and-fibs.html and then - for example - dig deeper into http://networkstatic.net/juniper-and-cisco-comparisons-of-rib-lib-fib-and-lfib-tables/ for more detailed RIB/FIB/LFIB illustration.

Also, 'A granular view of the situation is required.' sounds a little rude. It's community portal, if you require something maybe you should look for commercial ways of gaining this knowledge.