You will need a computer with at least 8GB of RAM and at least 20GB of free hard disk space. A faster processor or solid-state drive will speed up the virtual machine boot time, and a larger screen will help to manage multiple terminal windows.

The computer can run Windows, Mac OS X, or Linux – all work fine with VirtualBox, the only software requirement.

To install VirtualBox, you will need administrative access to the machine.

download the ova file for onos

first we will check using hyperv enabled.. and docker installed.

so we will check if virtual box 6.1.16 is giving errors with hyperv enabled or not..

install virtual box 6.1.16 ( it fixes some issues with hyperv)
configure virtual box networking


give the vm cpu and ram

2/3 cpu and 4/8 gb


my task manager shows 6 cores and 6 logical cores.

that means that , i have to allocate in such a way that there is cpu available for host as well as guest..

so 2 cpu
and 4096 mb ram.

do not change the mac address policy.

import hard drive as vdi ( keep it as it is,)







 When the import is finished 
now just configure the display from vboxvga to vmsvga
and change network to the natnetwork of your virtualbox. ( it will be preconfigured)

start the VM and log in as SDN User (sdn) with password rocks

Important Command Prompt Notes
In this tutorial, commands are shown along with a command prompt to indicate the subsystem for which they are intended.
For example,
onos>
indicates that you are in the ONOS command line, whereas
mininet>
indicates that you are in mininet.







double click setup onos cluster... wait for it to finish..


afterwards ... open onos gui
Launch ONOS GUI
ONOS has a web-based GUI which you can launch by clicking the provided ONOS GUI icon. Login as user onos with password rocks


trust the link
then 

To start mininet with this topology, simply double click on the Spine Leaf Topology icon on your desktop. When ready to exit mininet, not now however, type Ctrl-D or exit in the mininet prompt.





