netstat -a (windows)
netstat -l (linux)


states:

Listen / Listening

server app bound to a port, and its waiting for a syn packet from a client. (Server / Server App is in Listening State)

CLOSE_WAIT
1 side closed the session
other side has not closed yet, so its called close wait state

Listen is a server only state

TCP protocol operations may be divided into three phases. Connections must be properly established in a multi-step handshake process (connection establishment) before entering the data transfer phase. After data transmission is completed, the connection termination closes established virtual circuits and releases all allocated resources.

A TCP connection is managed by an operating system through a resource that represents the local end-point for communications, the Internet socket. During the lifetime of a TCP connection, the local end-point undergoes a series of state changes:[16]

LISTEN
(server) represents waiting for a connection request from any remote TCP and port.
SYN-SENT
(client) represents waiting for a matching connection request after having sent a connection request.
SYN-RECEIVED
(server) represents waiting for a confirming connection request acknowledgment after having both received and sent a connection request.



HALF_OPEN state we have not completed , just established.





ESTABLISHED
(both server and client) represents an open connection, data received can be delivered to the user. The normal state for the data transfer phase of the connection.

here 3 way handshake is completed.


FIN-WAIT-1
(both server and client) represents waiting for a connection termination request from the remote TCP, or an acknowledgment of the connection termination request previously sent.
FIN-WAIT-2
(both server and client) represents waiting for a connection termination request from the remote TCP.
CLOSE-WAIT
(both server and client) represents waiting for a connection termination request from the local user.

waiting for termination from local user

CLOSING
(both server and client) represents waiting for a connection termination request acknowledgment from the remote TCP.

waiting from termination from other side



LAST-ACK
(both server and client) represents waiting for an acknowledgment of the connection termination request previously sent to the remote TCP (which includes an acknowledgment of its connection termination request).
TIME-WAIT
(either server or client) represents waiting for enough time to pass to be sure the remote TCP received the acknowledgment of its connection termination request. [According to RFC 793 a connection can stay in TIME-WAIT for a maximum of four minutes known as two maximum segment lifetime (MSL).]

CLOSED
(both server and client) represents no connection state at all.

closed means nothing is listening



Connection establishment
To establish a connection, TCP uses a three-way handshake. Before a client attempts to connect with a server, the server must first bind to and listen at a port to open it up for connections: this is called a passive open. Once the passive open is established, a client may initiate an active open. To establish a connection, the three-way (or 3-step) handshake occurs:

SYN: The active open is performed by the client sending a SYN to the server. The client sets the segment's sequence number to a random value A.
SYN-ACK: In response, the server replies with a SYN-ACK. The acknowledgment number is set to one more than the received sequence number i.e. A+1, and the sequence number that the server chooses for the packet is another random number, B.
ACK: Finally, the client sends an ACK back to the server. The sequence number is set to the received acknowledgement value i.e. A+1, and the acknowledgement number is set to one more than the received sequence number i.e. B+1.
At this point, both the client and server have received an acknowledgment of the connection. The steps 1, 2 establish the connection parameter (sequence number) for one direction and it is acknowledged. The steps 2, 3 establish the connection parameter (sequence number) for the other direction and it is acknowledged. With these, a full-duplex communication is established.



Connection termination

Connection termination
The connection termination phase uses a four-way handshake, with each side of the connection terminating independently. When an endpoint wishes to stop its half of the connection, it transmits a FIN packet, which the other end acknowledges with an ACK. Therefore, a typical tear-down requires a pair of FIN and ACK segments from each TCP endpoint. After the side that sent the first FIN has responded with the final ACK, it waits for a timeout before finally closing the connection, during which time the local port is unavailable for new connections; this prevents confusion due to delayed packets being delivered during subsequent connections.

A connection can be "half-open", in which case one side has terminated its end, but the other has not. The side that has terminated can no longer send any data into the connection, but the other side can. The terminating side should continue reading the data until the other side terminates as well.

It is also possible to terminate the connection by a 3-way handshake, when host A sends a FIN and host B replies with a FIN & ACK (merely combines 2 steps into one) and host A replies with an ACK.[17]

Some host TCP stacks may implement a half-duplex close sequence, as Linux or HP-UX do. If such a host actively closes a connection but still has not read all of the incoming data that the stack has already received from the link, this host sends a RST (losing the received data) instead of a FIN (Section 4.2.2.13 in RFC 1122). This allows a TCP application to be sure the remote application has read all the data the former sent—waiting for the FIN from the remote side, when it actively closes the connection. But the remote TCP stack cannot distinguish between a Connection Aborting RST and Data Loss RST. Both cause the remote stack to lose all the data received.

Some application protocols using the TCP open/close handshaking for the application protocol open/close handshaking may find the RST problem on active close. As an example:

s = connect(remote);
send(s, data);
close(s);
For a program flow like above, a TCP/IP stack like that described above does not guarantee that all the data arrives to the other application if unread data has arrived at this end.