Why use a layer 2 address ?

tcp.stream eq 10

tcp.stream eq 8
It indicates that this is the 8th TCP or UDP stream found in the trace.

Before we had stream numbers a filter to identify the stream would specify a pair of IP addresses and port numbers, 
resulting in much longer display filters.

When tcp.stream was implemented, the number had no significance and would show some gaps. 
In recent (development) versions of Wireshark the number represents order in which wireshark detected tcp streams,
 the first gets tcp.stream==0, the next tcp.stream==1 etc.

----------------------------------------------------
to differentiate 1 object from another

e.g letter
address on the outside of envelope

ethernet header = envelope
there is an address
if it is not delivered - it needs to come back

in ethernet - MAC Address - Physical Address - burned on NIC
used locally to deliver messages (LAN)

we will not use ip addresses, because we want to use other protocols
not those protocols that use ips

so that Layer2 uses different protocols and Layer 3 uses different protocols
-------------------------------------------------


to capture http traffic.. just go to any http website
http://info.cern.ch/hypertext/WWW/TheProject.html

48 bit address

3 bytes = vendor
3 bytes = NIC Address

Bluetooth uses MAC Addresses
802.11 wifi
fiber interfaces

--------------------------------------
this is not the same as automated teller machine different abbreviation

Asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) is a switching technique used by telecommunication networks that uses asynchronous time-division multiplexing to encode data into small,
 fixed-sized cells. This is different from Ethernet or internet, which use variable packet sizes for data or frames.
 ATM is the core protocol used over the synchronous optical network (SONET) backbone of the integrated digital services network (ISDN). 

ATM Applications :
ATM Applications:

    ATM WANs –
    It can be used as a WAN to send cells over long distances, router serving as a end-point between ATM network and other networks, which has two stacks of protocol.
    Multimedia virtual private networks and managed services –
    It helps in managing ATM, LAN, voice and video services and is capable of full-service virtual private-networking, which includes integrated access of multimedia.
    Frame relay backbone –
    Frame relay services are used as a networking infrastructure for a range of data services and enabling frame relay ATM service to Internetworking services.
    Residential broadband networks –
    ATM is by choice provides the networking infrastructure for the establishment of residential broadband services in search for highly scalable solutions.
    Carrier infrastructure for telephone and private line networks –
    To make more effective use of SONET/SDH fiber infrastructures by building the ATM infrastructure for carrying the telephonic and private-line traffic.


