7 layer model

1. Physical Layer
handles all physical definitions - connection types(coax,4-pair,fiber,etc)
handles error connection and detection on the physical medium
electrical signals of two message collisions causes garbage 

2.) Data Link Layer
Digital Data -> Physical Signal
messages are sent across physical medium
media access control
flow control and access control (CSMA/CD) - MAC ADDRESS
collisions - recover from collisions CSMA/CD - Ethernet way of avoiding collisions with random holdoff timer
otherwise messages sent at same time and collisions random backoff / holdoff timer

AppleTalk -> CSMA/CA collision avoidance


3.) network layer sends data from 1 network to some other network this handles (routing)
so data link layer works with Ethernet Wire and/or Physical Medium
Network Layer works with 2/more than 2 seperate/different computers on different networks

LAYER 3 - overview
Internet -> Public IP Address -> Router -> NAT translation of Private IPs -> assigned to different devices at home


4.) Transport layer handles end-to-end reliable data service
in the case of tcp/ip , handles ports to differentiate traffic

5.) Session Layer

controls specific dialogs between two systems (session management)
a bit more abstract than lower layers
sometimes disagreement over which protocols land here (SSL/TLS , SSH , etc) - functionality overlaps NetBIOS , communication b/w two systems etc.

6.) Presentation Layer
how data is presented
XML , JPG etc.

7.) Application Layer -> HTTP,FTP,SMTP
handle error control , session establishment , management of connections , emails , file transfers , 


Layer to Layer
one layer speaks to another layer
each layer adds headers (encapsulation)
each layer removes header info and subsequent packet information etc. and then sends it to other layers and finally it is sent through physical medium.
then data is received from physical medium and by this process arrives at application layer and presented to user.
data is just a series of headers that is extracted