AD = administrative distance

believability factor of a route
when multiple routing protocols are configured on a router, and are putting routing information into the Routing information base or RIB. (routing table)

router will need to decide who to believe ?
if OSPF says go left and eigrp says go right to go to network, which routing protocol does a router believe and which route does a router insert into its routing table.
 
--------------
values determine which way to forward network traffic to

routing protocol with the lowest adminsitrative distance is more believable and its routing information is inserted in routing table in preference of other protocols with higher
administrative distance.

range for ad is 0 - 255
a directly connected interface has AD of 0 - lowest adminsitrative distance means higher believability factor of a route.

a static route configured to a nexthop ip address has AD of 1

when a static route is configured to a directly connected interface, its deemed to be directly connected and therefore has AD of 0


the reason why static routes have low AD is that  we as administrator are believed by a router, that we configured it as nexthop or directly connected interface.

Internal EIGRP has an administrative distance of 90 for internal routes, routes that originated in eigrp and not redistributed to a different routing protocol and put into internal eigrp.

Administrative distances of different routes.


CONNECTED INTERFACE = 0 
STATIC ROUTE = 1
INTERNAL EIGRP = 90
OSPF = 110
RIP = 120
Unknown routes = 255
Internal BGP = 200
External BGP = 20
IS-IS = 115


----------------------------------

San Jose advertising network 10.0.0.0/8 to san francisco router using RIPv2. so AD is 120

if this same network was advertised by new york router to san fran using eigrp the AD will be 90

thus san fran will choose eigrp new york route.


Administrative distance is a tie breaker in deciding which routes to route traffic to and add into routing tables

so san francisco router will install new york route with ad of 90. which is less than ripv2 ad of 120


if however the eigrp route was not available then the rip route would be added to san francisco router.






