southbound interface are the switches using openflow.

Openflow is designed so that we have a simple common hardware.
this can be used by network operating systems through virtualization

we need control plane abstractions and data plane (forwarding abstractions)


what is a flow ?

a flow is classification of packets that have a logical association
action and maintaining flow state
flow based resource management

Flow Identifiers :
L4 : TCP destination port 80
L3 : IP
L2.5 : MPLS Label ID
L2 : MAC source

Flow abstraction and switch api

network devices -> layer specific switching hardware abstracted away -> switch api

switch api deals with 
1. forwarding tables
2. configuration
3. control of forwarding
4. monitoring


2. state distribution abstraction
the control program should not have to handle distributed state details.

proposed abstraction : global network view

this is abstracted away by network operating system:
state collection
dissemination and synchronization
application isolation


what is open flow ?

in single flow table abstraction we have highest priority and lowest priority, 

A packet can match only one rule.


in openflow and sdn controller approach, we have multiple rules and ACLs.
openflow defines three things :

state : what can software configure to match packets, and how is it represented.

behaviour: given a state, how can (and should) the switch forward or modify packets?

control interface : how do i describe desired changes to the switch state ?


issues with openflow version1 :
. small table size



. table space or flow space cross product problem.
a condition where multiple independent header fields affect a packet's forwarding, which forces the use of many flow entries in a single table.


. limited match options

supported : mac,vlan,ip,l4 ports
missing: ipv6,qinq,mpls,sctp,optical circuits.


. limited forwarding options

supported : broadcast, multicast, drop

missing: packet spreading
forwarding to a virtual port
general byte modifications


performance = control plane
performance is not the forwarding rate

performance depends primarily on 3 factors :
usage, domain and switch architecture.



key performance indicators :
. flow setup delay
. flow setup rate
. control channel bandwidth.


Switches can be either hardware or software

hardware switches :

chassis : junipermx, procurve 54xx
top-of-rack : netgear 7324 , nec ip8800
optical : ciena coredirector



software switches :
x86:
open vswitch
openflow reference

wifi ap:
pc engines 

wimax bs:
nec

NetFPGA

these were the choices in 2010, there are more choices available now




