TCP is
Transport Layer Protocol
Access to the network layer for applications
connection oriented - before transmission a session is established between two devices.
full duplex mode operation - tcp connection is a pair of virtual circuits - one in each direction which operate in full duplex mode
transmission and receiving at both ends is done at the same time

error checking - 
sequencing of data
acknowledgement of receipt




TCP header follows the IP Header.
16 bit source and destination ports.

if SYN BIt is set, then the 32 bit sequence number in the header is the actual sequence number plus 1. - FOR THE DATA
if SYN BIT IS NOT SET, THEN the sequence number is the accumulated sequence number.


if the ACK Bit is set then ACK number value is equal to the next sequence number that receiver is expecting to receive.

header specifies length / size of tcp header
in 32 bit words.

minimum size is 5 words
maximum size is 15 words

minimum size of header is 20 bits.
maximum size of header is 60 bits.

40 bits options in the header.

reserved bit is set to 0 - for future use.

The Congestion Window Reduced (CWR) Flag - is part of congestion reduction mechanism
used in conjunction with ECE flag - Echo Congestion Notification Echo field or Flag - these two CWR AND ECE are used in QoS
to indicate to the transmitter to slow down transmission.

URG is URGENT FLAG - this segment is urgent.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT FLAG - used for acknowledgement of data.
PUSH - Is a flag set by tcp sender to cause tcp receiver to immediately pass the segment to application socket along with all in ordered data.
RESET - RESETS THE CONNECTION, THE CONNECTION IS TORN DOWN.
SYN - SYNCHRONIIZE SEQUENCE NUMBERS - ONLY first packet sent will have this flag on each side.
finish flag no more data to send.

Window size - the number of bits the receiver is willing to recieve.

TCP also uses a 16 bit TCP checksum
and a 16 bit urgent pointer.
used with urgent flag, when set means that offset from sequence number indicating the last urgent byte.

Options - out of scope

Data - encapsulated in tcp header.

Applications File transfer - ftp,tftp,nfs

email smtp pop , imap
remote login telnet, ssh

network mgmt - SNMP

name mgmt - domain name system.


At Layer 2 there is a field called Type number in ethernet frame - that allows to differentiate betwen multiple layer 3 protocols.(ipv4,ipv6,ipx,appletalk)
The NIC needs to know which Layer3 protocol to send frame to


At Layer 3 A protocol number is used to differentiate the different protocols being used at layer 4
whether tcp or udp is used.

At Layer 4 a port number is used to indicate multiple applications being used at layer 7

