UDP is connectionless.

TCP is connection oriented. sequence numbers are used



What is a socket

a socket is combination of the ipaddress of a host computer and the port number used. to identify the application and the transport protocol used.

1. ip address of a host
2. port number used.
3. transport protocol used.


TCP AND UDP allow for session multiplexing.

single user can communicate with multiple servers . using multiple sessions.
Information may be segmented.

Maximum transmission unit of fast ethernet is 1500 bytes.
TCP can theoretically support 65495 bits.


maximum segment size is the largest amount of data that tcp can send.
MSS should be set small enough.

TCP supports MSS and Path MTU discovery.
sender and receiver can determine automatically these parameters.
TCP sends minimum data to avoid fragmentation and reordering of packets.

UDP does not support this

-----------------


TCP uses flow control to avoid sending data too quickly..

if sender sends data faster than receiver can handle receiver drops data and require retransmission.

e.g Server PC sends data to mobile device.



TCP has sliding window to control flow of data.
in each tcp segment, receiver will specify the amount of additional data it is willing to buffer for connection.

sending computer can send only this much amount of data.

UDP does not implement flow control.

-------------------------------------


UDP does not set up sessions
tcp has sessions and termination of sessions at the end of transmission.

UDP does not implement reliability.
------------------------------------------

UDP is a transport layer protocol that provides access to layer 3 without the overhead of reliability mechanisms.

it is a connectionless protocol.
provides limited error delivery.
optional checksum value for integrity of data.
UDP header includes a destination port number, if receiving device has inactive port. return message transmitted to indicate that this port is unreachable.

UDP provides best effort delivery.

packets maybe misdirected lost or duplicated.
no guarantee or receipt.

no data recovery features.

higher layer protocols must recover the packets.
------------------------------------------

UDP HEADER.
length in bytes.
minimum size is 8 bits. length of header.

maximum 65535 bits.

